# Typst Wiki Template PDF Server 

Wiktionary is the source of most of this information.

Weike(維客) is Chinese for wiki in the sense as it is used in English. 維 means to preserve; to maintain; to hold together; and dimension while 客 means customer; visitor; and guest. This is related ultimately to the word weiji(維基), which is derived from Hawaiian wikiwiki, further with this being derivative of Proto-Eastern Polynesian witi which itself means fast, rapid, alert. Exactly this connocation of speed is where English was inspired to call an encyclopedia WikiWikiWeb: the web at its fastest. In the Great Tradition of the Citation Chain, we preserve that which allows us to accomplish ultimate speed. This is the great promise of the future we may bring to the codex and a Neo-Memex.  

This wiki is designed for linking pages together. Another project is under way called wenben(本文) which allows this template to easily be deployed as a wiki of linked pdfs from a github page. This anagram decomposes into 文 as language; culture; writing; formal; literary; gentle along with 本 as roots or stems of plants; origin; source; this; the current; root; foundation; basis; (a measure word). With great speed we accumulate culture as a foundation: the origin of our thinking renegotiating the world. With regards to technical details, the compilaiton is mostly handled by a bash script that a jekyll site deployment runs, as well as the typst-cli rust compiler. The index page utilzes the single bundle browser implementation to render an svg so that foramtting from lib.typ could be hardcoded in index.typ for index.html. This was derived from a modification of the code previewer and exporter offered as an example in typst.ts. Later containerization and so on will be introduced.

A third project is planned, though it remains yet to be started: a citation engine which can index and query the wenben built from weikes. This citation engine would be built into a forum app that also brings microblogging into focus. Luntan(論壇) is the Chinese word for forum. Yet another anagram decomposition yeilds for us 論 as to talk (about); to discuss; theory; by the; per; the Analects (of Confucius), and 壇 is altar. With all these particles, a wave comes about. Suiji(隨機) is chinese for Stochastic, which is the realm we enter with sufficient data. 隨 means to follow; to comply with; to allow; surname while 機 signifies machine; opportunity; secret. The citation engine forum will be a stochastic altar, therefore perphas it should be dubbed as Suiji Luntan. (隨機 論壇)	

A5 paper size has been chosen as to make viewing from a phone or tablet work well. Also, viewer may find that they do not have to full-screen a browser with pdf view, or also from a pdf viewer that has loaded from the url or is those enjoying offline viewing after downloading. With time, a terminal viewing component from the raw .typ files hosted under /src of the root directory of the server hosting wenben(本文). Naturally, this will be called zhongduan(終端) which means computer terminal, likely a VT100 Emulator. 終 signifies finish or end; 端 end; extremity; item; port; to hold sth. level with both hands; to carry; regular. The idea of a terminal port works well, as one could simply stream `src/**/*.typ` files to such a terminal. The troff document typsetting toolset had nroff for terminal rendering, as far as I am aware, though I am surely a bit lost with regards to such concerns, ever exploring and learning. To carry forward a nroff of typst for a terminal port would lead to ultimate mininalism and thus the greatest speed: weikie wikikiweb; weike weiji wenben (維客 維基 本文)  
