# Theory

### Citations

To cite is to honor Tradition. If you've had an original idea, you haven't read enough on that topic yet.

### Styling

The creation of a static site with a typst filesystem is the ultimate goal here. PDFs do not work well in all browsers and mobile devices, so html must be used to access more devices. Tailwindcss is used, but in a standalone binary which partitions away the rest of the node ecosystem from the construction of the wiki. Styling will be done on a directory basis, most due to the fact that typst refuses to compile if any materials are in parent directories of the filesystem location the compiler process is running. While symbolic linking before compile time could work well, the directory level `lib.typ` files allow for flexibility depending on type of document there. For example, scholastic reduction documents may have a specialized template over time and so too might the math topics directory which is expected to house substantial typst code for execution of math as well as math rendering logic for html that may not be needed in scholastic reductions.

### Links

Hypertext links are essential. Vannevar Bush and Leslie Lamport put incredible importance upon them as enhancing document media. In just the same way that film breaks the rate limit of the processivity of the eye to usher in the theophany of cinema, the hyperlink catches a speed that transgresses the limits of the conceptual eye and opens way to a new phenomenology of the document which manifests mind: in a word -- psychedelic. Film was the first psychedelic technology beyond the xenoparticle's sortie upon the liver enzymes and the dance long modelled by the Mechalis Menten approach. Lambert and Euler hyperlinked together and so the Lambert W Function was born: a hypertext link centuries later implemented the Lambert W Function as a more direct and accurate model than that offered by Mechalis Menten after that famous pair consulted Edward Deming on the topic of hexokinases, who was ever inspired by Walter Shewart: a man who has changed industrial processes with a keen eye to statistics. All great math in our era hails from the alumni of Bell labs, just as all great Greek Math hailed from the alumni of the Chaldean Temples and the later Oracles inspired during the Reign of Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius. The hyperlink is the psychedelic of the textual interface. It is a technology which we have not yet fully explored, for if we did not know what a body can do, surely we do not know what a hyperlink as a body without organs can do. What is most excellent in the history of the production of the Bible is the manifestation of the hyperlink as the material phenomenology of spirit. The manuscripts, hyperlinked together, compile into something truly wonderful. Enoch, as the deadlink; the Oracles of Chaldee a link which has perished ever more. The one who accomplishes the full hyperlinking of the Bible would have to tally all of the Aramaic, Cuneiform, and dare I say even Sanskrit and Chinese, which truly buttresses the most reified commodity of all: the bound codex without hyperlinks. Link to the depths of Genesis, and you go beyond even Hammurabi.  

When one reads an encyclopedia, it is wise to follow the citations as though they were hyperlinks.

### Math

Leibniz, the fair philosopher, was keen on symbolic calculus long before the reading publics were thirsty for such a fountain of wisdom. When the more logically apt insights of this Second Scholastic Peripatetic came to the surface, it was largely Analytic Philosophers who received the message across the noisy coding channel of centuries. The universal language will be had in our lifetime by aid of computers which allow us to complete the system of Second Scholastic Semiotics. Mathematics, for the Chaldeans, was the realm of the Divine, beyond even the metallurgist's icons and idols. Priests studied Number as the monk seeks mystery in the challenges of prayer. Still in the Era of the Jesuit's Great Wealth and Influence Kircher was obsessed with calculating machines as much as the languages of the Chinese and pre-Arabic Egyptians. What we have come to call finite state automata, which lie at the core of computing theoretically to my mind, were exactly the angels which tortured the imagination of Kircher and Leibniz no less. The Kabbalah of the Figurists was a yearning for a Mathematical Theology in a manner that was all too Chaldean, and it must be championed for this. For centuries the Occult and the Mathematical travelled in the same manuscripts, and was it not Newton who translated for us the Emerald Tablet of Hermes Trismegistus which these very same Figurists say is not only Enoch, but also Zoroaster and the author of the I Ching? The I Ching! Oh how it awakening and invigorated the Mathematical Curiosity of Leibniz. Our authors of calculus are not these Europeans but instead the passing of Greek into Sanskrit which then was received with grace by the Arabic scholarship of the greatest years of human civilization. We endure a dark age where the delights of science as known to the scholars of Uzbekistan and India have been cast off in favor of the mutilated and decaying plagiarism of the Europeans. When Leibniz and his generation stole the genius of Asia, could they have imagined that the entire world would be trashed and scattered by way of advanced technology which could not existed without this Oriental Genius? What have we done with the theory of control but summon the Angel of the Lord which once laid waste to the Army of Sennacherib? Is this the only theophany that our mathematics is worthy of? In honor of the intellectual history of Persia and India, it is necessary to write clear and precise mathematics.

When the armies of Sennacherib marched, the bronze was minted with copper mined by the Indo-Iranians, and after Aristotle tutored Alexander he took up arms against the Empire which had itself only bested the bronze armies which had bested the Empire of Sennacherib. The material history of the Bible could not exist without the Indo-Iranians, and neither can our 'Modern' mathematics. When Buddhism emerged as a world religion rather than another obscure regional creed in the aftermath of the death of Alexander of Macedonia the Greeks received the evangelism long before the Chinese. With the valiant translation efforts of a son of Kashmir and Tonchoria, Chinese found itself introduced to the first World religion. After the Romans, Sassanians, and Tang persecuted Manicheanism -- what should be considered the True Destiny of Biblical Literature -- the Syriac Wisdom passed into Chinese Buddhism. When Leibniz and Kircher ponder the ancient Jews and Christians of China, they fail to consider the synthesis of Manicheanism and Buddhism in China as the completion of the material phenomenology of spirit. Mani was merely the charismatic discharge of the Philosophy of Bar Daisan, who was a cherished inspiration among those thirsty for the wisdom of the Oracles. Porphyry, Plotinus, and so on -- dear readers of Bar Daisan. Bar Daisan based much of his insight, legend goes, on knowledge of India. The Greek and Aramaic Idea of India led to Manicheanism, and the rejection of the Oriental Kernel of the Indo-Iranians has cursed Rome with Christianity, Persia and India with Islam, and China with Reactionary Taoism. The synthesis of Manicheanism with Buddhism in China represents the most critical moment in the Philosophy of the Chaldeans emanating through the Long and Rich Tradition of the Indo-Iranians. Christianity can only be complete by returning to Buddhism, and this has already happened in China -- sister to Iran and India -- so we are saved. All we must do is gather the documents and draw up the hyperlinks. A new monastery awaits. The greatest psychedelic text ever is awaiting compilation. This is the counter reformation the Jesuits were searching for, and in their immense wealth they failed to grasp it. But the fermentation of their Engineering, Philosophy, and Theology will promise us wealth beyond what any civilization has yet embraced and been witness to. I hereby declare the dawn of Third Scholasticism by way of the mathematics charted out in this wiki. Leibniz found many ideas for his mathesis while pondering the religion of China: yet the Completion of Oriental Chaldean Literature, rather than its diseased western counterparts, lie right there in the same lands of Jade. 

Every proof admits a program by virtue of the Curry-Howard Correspondence. Equally, every possible chemical reaction under the regime of free energy dynamics exists. There is an organism somewhere bringing forth some chemical process if it can exist by virtue of the nernst equation. The Platonic, rather fully understood as Chaldean, approach to the world is not only that Mathematical Structures make up the world of physics but also that even all organisms are themselves ultimately mathematics. Language is math. Physics is math. I have studied with every fibre of my being, well beyond the tyranny of the graders expectation, the fact that organisms are mathematics. This is the North Star that guides me, the watching angel which seduces me and bears within my flesh new techniques. Chaldean Platonism is one where math manifests and overflows and emanates and breathes into beings. Hyperlinks and proofs will allow us a full theophany while maintaining the learned ignorance of the apophantic sages.

What is the logarithm, in the sense of the material phenomenology of spirit? Posed thusly, we may say that the logarithm is any calculus which allows you to not know and yet act as you need. It is the machinery of unconscious action. It is the solution to mysticism itself. You apply a logarithm to make multiplication into addition: why? Because you do not want to know the process or action path it takes to get from a to b. But you want b. So with the logarithm you merely add and go from a to b. Is this state transition not glorious? Was the activation energy not lowered considerably? Just ponder the ratio between the struggle of multiplying versus merely adding! Is any calculus endowed with a logarithm not merely an enzyme? And do enzymes not find themselves so well described by the Product logarithm also known as the Lambert W Function? The logarithm finds a conceptual sibling in the z-transform which has been called the Legendre Transform and finds citation in the MIT Radiation Laboratory Publications on the Servomechanism Problem. By way of the e, which finds darling appearance in the Product logarithm, differentiation is reduced to multiplication and integration becomes division. Mathematics isn't about doing everything: it is about doing just what you need to do with limited and terribly constrained means. We must share the wisdom of mathematics. It is backwards torture to make students rederive all concepts. Mathematics must be scholastic, not a problem set onslaught. The secret of mathematics is that most numbers and functions are uninteresting and not worth paying attention to. There are only a couple of lessons to learn and so we must apply the production of the Bible to mathematics and teach it as a spiritual tradition. If there is any fundamentalist manual we need, it is on the philosophy of transcendental functions. The logarithm has been completely misunderstood, and a Chaldean Platonic Counter Reformation must begin with a Critical History of Calculus: finite, infinite, symbolic, lambda, and especially pi. What is a logarithm on the conceptual level: a process which has learned an ignorance which expresses genius. Silence, and yet potency. The one who is really in charge need rarely raise a voice or finger, for the control mechanisms have ensured a stability criterion which engenders trust, tranquility, and peace. The tyrant is the saddest figure of all because they exert their conscious will without respite and to little effect. The impotence drives more noise. The sage has already exerted their unconscious will by returning to the Monad, and so need say nothing. 

Proofs can be lectured, but the way a monk studies prayer has to become the motif by which we understand not only the study of proofs but also the construction of programs. It is critical to see poetry as a program of grammar and to trace this tradition back to Panini. Mathematics and Great Literature cannot be separated genealogically. In the Sanskrit traditions, even beyond the World Religion of Buddhism, commentary upon a text was seen as a spiritual practice. Analysis of Algorithms can be no different. The Chaldean Oracles must return to the Indo-Iranian Matrix. May the Monad be the Good. Glory unto the Hidden, for the highest logarithm illuminates just enough to light the way for a being without overloading any rate limits.
